Welcome back.
In this video we are going to read this as we file first.
And before we do so I would like to do one little thing and I would like to get rid of the zero and
one.
And in order to do so I just need to get rid of this vertical head visible so I can uncheck this.
And as you can see now it's gone.
All right.
Now it's not this not appearing anymore so I'm going to save this main window right UI.
Then I go back to my pirate charm and I rebuild my build why I recompiled my build so that I can now
work with it.
And then I get rid of all of this code that I have added.
So the only thing I have is my main window with its constructor why I set the titles to two student
manager.
Now the next thing I want to do is to read these v files.
I'm just going to say self-taught read C as the file and then I tell it which file I want to read.
And I called this file students Dotsie as Veep and now you might wonder where is this retaught or read
C S V file method coming from.
Well it's not coming from ourselves.
We need to develop it of course we need to implement it.
So I'm going to write C S V file and it requires one pair of Meecher in a declaration which I'm going
to call file name.
OK so I want to open up the file name and what I want to do is I want to read through the students use
the file and read every single row in here into our program.
And how would I do that.
Well the best way is to actually use the c as we import.
So we can just check out the documentation once again where we are this module called C as V and it
contains this reader method which we can very easily use.
I'm just going to copy this code from here as we have done in the past on getting the right reader because
I want to read for now.
And instead of passing I'm just going to say OK open a file and then read.
And of course I need to be careful with the right indentation so I'm going to take care of that.
Now it says here C's is missing so I need to import C S V.
Let's do that.
Import C as V.
Now I don't want to open agues.
C S V.
I actually want to open my file name.
So I'm going to say file name and the way I want to open it is I want to read it.
So I'm just going to say are now.
The rest can stay the same.
This should be called file.
At least that's my preference.
You could of course leave it as file name.
Then I will not going to call it spam reader because we're not reading spam.
We're just calling in reader.
So I renamed it and the delimiter as we can see here is not an empty space but it's actually a comma
so we need to replace this empty space with a comma and the quote character.
Well we don't have a quote character yet but if somebody would ever enter something like informatics
like this then we could say OK we are going to use to quote Tayshaun mark as a core character.
Now Forro in reader Prince John wrote.
Well I'm just going to say print the roll because I just want to see the role for now.
OK now if we run our main W-why file then we should see the file C as the file read already.
So because you can see it's read and we can see here Jondo informatics is one list of strings.
Then there's the next list of strings and so forth.
So reading already works but now we also want to display that correctly in our table because if we look
at our table nothing has changed we still have Jondo informatics.
Erica Fisher mathematics but.
Or mathematics.
That's even better.
So her name is as subject to mathematics and we need to pretty much take care of adding data in there.
And as you recall probably we had this set item method.
So what I'm going to do here is instead of just printing the row I'm going to say the line is equal
to self aren't you.
I teach students table third row count and at that point you might say OK line is not a good name for
the row count.
Maybe we should call this row count here.
Row count is going to be self taught students table row count.
Now why would we need that.
Well we need that in order to be able to insert rows because as you know we had this insert row method
which pretty much allows us to insert a row at a specific position.
So I'm just going to say insert your row onto the students table so self but you are students table
which is the students table that we have in our whole UI which pretty much is this table here is a table
and there insert a row.
And where should we inserted add row count.
Now let's save that and test it once again and see OK there we are.
So as you can see we have suddenly four additional rows and of course they are empty because we didn't
tell those rows.
What an entry should have what content they should have and that's what we are going to add now so in
here we're just going to say self-taught you find our students table set items and what is the item.
Well it's our row count comma.
Then the column.
And here we are we can specify directly because we know in the column zero we have the first name in
column 1 we have the last name and then column 2 we have the subject or the major.
So I'm just going to say cute widgets that cute table widget item because that's the type that we require
here and in here I can just enter the text so I can enter something like text with just see if that
works.
And we should see that here we have text text text text.
OK.
So that seems to work.
Now we can replace it with the actual entry.
So where do we get the entry from.
From our row which is pretty much that and 30 here.
So we see row zero as the first name.
Row one is dough and row 2 is the subject.
So what we can just say is row at position zero should be here and now can do the same thing for the
other two because we also have the last name.
And we also have the subject so you can just replace those values here.
This is going to be the last name that line here.
And this is going to be the subject because as you see row at position zero.
Look at it as informatics mathematics informatics and mathematics.
So now let's run it again.
And there we are so Jondo informatics Michael Moore mathematics Jondo 3 or John 3 3 informatics.
So now we also have this girl Erica Fisher whose name is or whose subject is mathematics.
So I would really like to know what mathematics is.
But mathematics is actually what I wanted to enter there.
OK.
So by this point you can see we can very easily read the data from a c v file and we can very easily
display it in our table here.
So that's already pretty powerful and very cool.
Now of course we want to add new entries.
So we need to implement that functionality.
And later we need to save the entries as well.
So I'd say let's have a look at creating a new entry in the next video.
So see you there.